Getting Started Without Composer
================================

There are some situations when using Composer for dependency management
isn't a viable option. In such cases, it is possible to
get by with cloning two git repositories and setting up a simple
PSR-0 autoloader.

This is of course the "advanced path" for getting started, so if you are
not comfortable with git, it is recommended that you get Composer up and running.

## Create Your Vendor Directory

The conventional path for third-party dependencies is `vendor/` in the
root of your project. However, any path will do, as long as it is
read-accessible to PHP.

Create this directory, and if it's something other than `vendor/`, simply
substitute it accordingly in the following explanation.

Next, you will need to clone two dependencies. The first
is the CallFire SDK, and the second is Zend\Stdlib, which powers certain
operations in the SDK.

### Clone the SDK

In your vendor directory, run
`git clone https://github.com/CallFire/CallFire-PHP-SDK.git`, and then change
to the created directory, and `git checkout <tag>`, where `<tag>` is the
specific version of the SDK that you desire (e.g. `1.0.0`).

### Clone the Stdlib

Back in the vendor directory, create a directory called `Zend/`, and
change into that directory. Then, run
`git clone https://github.com/zendframework/Component_ZendStdlib.git Stdlib`.

### Create SplClassLoader

`SplClassLoader` is a PSR-0 autoloader, recommended as the standard
implementation by the PSR working group.
The implementation is available at https://gist.github.com/jwage/221634

Create a file called `SplClassLoader.php` in your vendor directory, and
place the `SplClassLoader` code there.

## autoload.php

Lastly, create your autoload file for these dependencies. In a file called
`autoload.php`, in your vendor directory, place the following code:

```php
<?php
require_once(__DIR__.'/SplClassLoader.php');

$callfireLoader = new SplClassLoader('CallFire', __DIR__.'/CallFire-PHP-SDK/src');
$callfireLoader->register();

$stdlibLoader = new SplClassLoader('Zend\Stdlib', __DIR__);
$stdlibLoader->register();
```

## Include the autoloader

Depending upon the framework, or lack thereof, that you're utilizing for
your project, you will need to place an `include` or `require` statement
that references the `autoload.php` file that you created above.

An example would be:

```php
<?php
require_once(__DIR__.'/vendor/autoload.php');
```

Once the autoloader is included in your project, you will be able to
continue as indicated in the remainder of the documentation.
