Getting Started
===============

The CallFire API provides a robust interface to control functionality available through the regular web interface,
plus some controls which are not otherwise accessible.

This library provides a set of PHP classes to interface with the
[CallFire API](http://www.callfire.com/api-documentation). Please refer to the
[API documentation](http://www.callfire.com/api-documentation) for information
on finding your API credentials.

If you are unable to utilize the Composer dependency management tool, please
refer to [Getting Started Without Composer](getting-started/01.without-composer.md).

There are two separate, but largely equivalent, endpoints by which you can
access the CallFire API. These are the REST and SOAP APIs. Due to limitations
in the PHP SOAP extension, you should largely aim to use the REST API,
especially when interacting with the Broadcast services.

Both the SOAP and REST APIs share a common set of resources that they return,
and share a set of operation "interfaces," but they are invoked differently.
The benefit of these commonalities is that finding an issue with one
API endpoint allows you to fall back to the other endpoint without too much difficulty.

## The REST API

The REST API will be the primary API endpoint in our example documentation, because its design
aims to make the structure of API requests more intuitive and stable.

### Very basic example
This example demonstrates how to instantiate the REST API client, create
a request object, invoke a request, and then parse the response into
an easily-consumable form.  
```php
<?php
use CallFire\Api\Rest\Request;
require 'vendor/autoload.php';

$client = CallFire\Api\Client::Rest("<api-login>", "<api-password>", "Broadcast");

$request = new Request\QueryBroadcasts;
$response = $client->QueryBroadcasts($request);

$broadcasts = $client::response($response);

foreach($broadcasts as $broadcast) {
    var_dump($broadcast);
}
```

Though this code is fairly intuitive, there are a few clarifications to make.

First, each request is codified into a request object
(a sort of "criteria object"). Any parameters in the request object
that are left null will not be specified to the API. Not all
operations require a request object, and some operations require
additional parameters before the request object (e.g., a resource identifier).
This cleanly separates *required* parameters from optional context-dependent
parameters, to avoid confusion.

The return value from any given operation method is the unmodified response-body of the API 
request. This allows you to process the response in other ways, should you need to 
bypass this library's response parsing.

### Responses

The `$client::response()` method is in fact a static method call to
`CallFire\Api\Rest\AbstractClient::response()` that intuits the type of the
response, then instantiates and populates an appropriate response object.

For methods that return lists of resources (e.g., QueryBroadcasts),
this is a `CallFire\Api\Rest\Response\ResourceList` object. This object
is an iterable set of resources (ordinarily all of the same type), such as
`CallFire\Common\Resource\Broadcast` objects.

If an operation is returning a single resource, instead of several, then
it will be parsed into a `CallFire\Api\Rest\Response\Resource` object,
with which you can then call the `getResource()` method to obtain the actual
resource.

It is also possible for an operation to return "exception" type responses,
or nothing at all. Be sure to check the type of response that you are receiving
to ensure that it's what you expect.

## The SOAP API

Also available is the SOAP interface to the API. Due to some limitations of PHP's
SOAP extension, it is not recommended that you use this portion of the SDK. Specifically,
PHP's SOAP extension does not support the "anyAttribute" behaviour of the SOAP specification,
which CallFire's services make use of for associating arbitrary metadata with contacts.

### Very Basic Example

This example is equivalent to the same example for the REST client, but with some minor
differences.  
```php
<?php
use CallFire\Api\Soap\Request;
require 'vendor/autoload.php';

$client = CallFire\Api\Client::Soap("<api-login>", "<api-password>", "Broadcast");

$request = new Request\QueryBroadcasts;
$response = $client->QueryBroadcasts($request);

$broadcasts = $client::response($response);

foreach($broadcasts as $broadcast) {
    var_dump($broadcast);
}
```

Obviously, the most fundamental change needed to be made to your code, relative to the
REST client, is to change the namespace from which you construct request objects. As well,
there is a separate helper method on the `CallFire\Api\Client` class to construct a SOAP
client. In the case of this example, the code is otherwise equivalent.

### Responses

The response format of a SOAP client call is *slightly* different from the response format
of a REST client call. While the REST client will return to you the unmodified response data,
the SOAP client will instead return a response object which is already constructed from the
response data. Usually, this means that the `$client::response()` method will simply return
to you the very same object that you passed in.

However, in API calls where you are creating a new resource in the CallFire system
(e.g. `Request\CreateBroadcast`), the response is simply an integer. The `$client::response()`
method will turn this into a `Response\ResourceReference`, for the purpose of interface
compatibility with the REST client.

Similarly, when you are requesting an individual resource in the CallFire system
(e.g. `Request\GetBroadcast`), the response will be the populated resource object. Passing
this to the `$client::response()` method will create a `Response\Resource`.

In cases where a regular `SoapClient` would have thrown a `SoapFault`, this is instead caught
and simply returned. The `$client::response()` method populates a `Response\ResourceException`
for the purpose of interface compatibility with the REST client.
